The old way of scaling Google Ads was
hiring more performance marketers. The
new way is building human in the loop
systems that make decisions for you.
Today, I'm going to walk you through the
exact Google Ads automation workflows we
use inside of our ad agency to scale
results without burning out our team. If
you're new to the channel, I'm Sylv
Perez. I'm the founder of Ad Conversion.
We teach 9,000 plus B2B marketers how to
master ads and we manage over $40
million a year in ad spend for top B2B
SAS brands. The platform that I'm going
to be using in this video is called
Sammy. We actually built Sammy inside of
our ad agency because we needed a way to
scale our team's time while also driving
better results for Sammy. And using
Sammy, what we can do is we can build
workflows to optimize performance,
manage budgets, or monitor KPIs. A good
way to think about it is like think
Zapier, but built for ads. So, what
we're going to do is we're going to walk
through the first workflow that we built
inside of Sammy and that's called
monthly budget protection. And you can
get started for free with Sammy. So you
can put everything we're talking about
into practice. So what this sequence is
going to do is it's going to notify me
once I reach 80% of my budget on the
first step. And then on the second step,
it's going to pause all of my campaigns
once I reach it for the month. So what I
have to do now is I just need to go in
and modify each step. So let's go and
modify step number one. And we're going
to choose our customer account that we
want to apply this for. And we're going
to go ahead and leave everything as is
in terms of the rule conditions because
it's already created for me. So in my
case, I'm looking over the account.
Sammy will just notify me. It's going to
look every single hour, 7 days a week
based on this month's data. And then
it's going to follow the following
condition in my rule builder. So here I
have cost greater than or equal to8
times my budget. So all I have to do is
change this number to my budget. So
let's just pretend I have a $10,000
budget. And that's it. Now if I want to
get notified in Slack, I can enable
Slack notifications. And now I can
choose my channel that I'm care that I
care about. And then what I could also
do is I can tag different people that I
want to be in the loop on this message.
So for example, I can tag myself. So
let's do Sylvio. I could tag other
people on my team. For example, like
Jessica and so on and so forth. So I can
add different people into my Slack
notification. So when it gets hit into
Slack, I get tagged as well. So I never
miss these messages. And this is pretty
much it. If I wanted to add in different
variables into the message, I could. So
for example, all of these different
variables are being pulled in from my
rule conditions. So if I add in
conditions to my rule, I can pull it in
here. So for example, if I wanted to
pull in the channel name, so like maybe
I would say channel and then I would
push that in there. And then now I have
account name and then I also have
channel name as an example. So let's go
ahead and save that. And now for my
second step, I'm going to go ahead and
modify this. And here in my second step,
now I'm going to just update my values
here based on my budget. So, in my case,
I have a $10,000 budget. So, we're going
to just go ahead and put $10,000. And
that's it. Step one, notifies me when
80% of my budget is spent. So, in that
case, $8,000. And then step two, once I
hit 10K, it's going to go ahead and
pause my campaigns. If I wanted to be a
bit more safe because, you know, there
is an hour of margin because the rule is
running every single hour on the hour,
checking if you're hitting your budget
or not. Um, and I want to make sure I
don't exceed $10,000. I could just set
it a little bit lower. So, like maybe
9,9990
as an example, just so there's a little
bit of wiggle room to not overspend the
10K. And then we're going to go and
enable Slack notifications. I'm going to
choose my channel. I'll tag whoever
needs to be on this message. And that's
it. We're going to go and save it. And
now I would publish this. And now I
don't have to worry about overspending
anymore, which is dramatic in terms of
peace of mind. And and ultimately like
if you're running client ads,
overspending budget is negligence,
right? we can use automation to make
sure that that doesn't happen. The
second automation that we love to use
inside of ad agency that helps us drive
better results for Google ads and just
help scale our team's bandwidth is
pausing underperforming keywords. There
are so many keywords in our accounts
that we just let spend and it just
spends wastefully. The 8020 rule is
usually true where 20% of your keywords
are driving 80% of your results. But we
kind of develop this irrational fear of
pausing keywords because we think we're
going to miss out on opportunities. And
fundamentally, as a business, you have
to decide what you're willing to
tolerate and what you're willing to
accept. However, I would say try to be
performance driven. So, for instance,
like if you have a goal of driving o
opportunities for $3,000 and you have
keywords that have never driven
opportunities or they only driven one
opportunity in the past year and they're
spending way more than that, I would
probably consider pausing them because
you're just kind of deliluding yourself
that you're going to be missing out on
opportunity where you're really just
wasting budget and you're better off
reallocating that spend towards the
things that are actually working for
you. So, to use this automation
workflow, the way it's going to work is
we're going to go and use one of our SAM
templates here. And we have this SAM
template here called non-performing
keywords. So, we're going to just use
that to make this super fast and easy.
And I'm going to go and select Google.
And it's already created out for me
because I'm using a template. Now, I
just got to modify this rule for my
conditions. So, I'm going to go ahead
and choose my customer account. We're
going to keep here pause keywords with
no conversions. Scope will be keywords.
Task will be to pause. And then now what
I have to do is I have to select the
campaigns in which I want this rule to
be eligible to fire based on those
keywords. So I'm going to go and enable
only my active campaigns. So this is a
smaller account. I've got five active
campaigns. And what I'm going to be
doing is or I should say what Sammy is
going to be doing is Sammy is going to
be checking all of these five campaigns
and it's going to be looking every
single hour to see if those keywords are
underperforming. So in this case what we
have is cost is greater than X and
conversions is less than one. So for
instance what this looks like in
practice is maybe I have a goal of
getting you know conversions for less
than $3,000. So in this case, if the
keyword spent more than $3,000 and it
never generated a single conversion over
the lifetime of that keyword, meaning
ever, it's going to get killed. Like
those for sure you can pause without a
shadow of a doubt because it's never
performed for you, right? That's
obvious. So all I got to do now is I
just need to enable Slack notifications,
choose my channel, and then aways I go.
You know, I can tag myself and whoever
in the message, and now I would know
when this happens. And if you're
listening to this and you're like,
"Silio, I'm skeptical. Like, I want to
have some human in the loop here in
terms of giving my final blessing." Then
that's why you can go ahead and enable
manual approval. And when you get your
Slack message, there will be a button to
approve the change so you can take that
final action. So, you can rest assure
that you could still be in the driver's
seat while also still using automation
to scale your time. So, now all I got to
do is I just got to publish this and I'm
done. I've got this workflow working for
me and now if my keywords are
underperforming over the lifetime, they
can get killed. Another way I could
approach this because this is only
taking into consideration keywords that
have never performed. Oftent times what
we find in Google ad accounts is we have
keywords that just have continued to
underperform over time but they were
once our top performers but given you
know competitive dynamics multiple
things they just stopped performing over
time. So in that case what we can do is
we can adjust our rule. So instead of it
being based on you know cost greater
than X and conversions less than one we
could switch it around. So we could do
something like if our cost per
conversion is greater than and then we
could set a target. So like maybe I have
a target of you know let's say the
maximum I'm willing to do is $4,000. We
can set that target. So, if my cost per
conversion is greater than 4,000 and
then I can switch the time frame to be
based on the last 90 days. Now, what
this is doing, it's looking at my
keywords and it's optimizing my keywords
based on the ones that were once
performing, right? Because you're not
going to have a cost per conversion if
you never generated a conversion in the
first place. I hope that makes sense.
So, in this case, what I'm doing is I'll
protect myself on an ongoing basis based
on the last 90 days of performance. And
90 days is pretty considerable because
if it's not performing over a quarter,
then I think that's a pretty fair
assumption that it's no longer working
for you and you should start to make
some some adjustments. So this is an
example of how I could tackle that. One
thing too is you can completely
customize this. So for example, like I
can add in my custom metrics as well. So
like I don't know about you guys, but
for for us, we don't really use
conversions often because conversions
has all of our different conversion
actions. So it could be misleading. So
we're pulling in all of our different
conversion actions that we have in these
accounts so we can use it for our rules.
So for example, I'm just looking here at
the ones that are available in this one
and like they have this appointment
conversion. So I can go ahead and add
that. So I can say this appointment
conversions is less than one. So in this
case, what it's doing is it's doing the
exact same logic, but it's looking at if
my campaigns or my keywords have spent
more than $3,000 in the last 90 days and
they haven't generated any single
conversions. So you can completely
customize these rules is really what I'm
trying to say. So that you can have the
flexibility to optimize your campaigns
based on the logic that you're already
following today. You can take that logic
and then you can build a workflow around
it to just scale your results and your
time. Just wanted to take a quick second
and say if you're loving this video, you
will absolutely love our free courses
here at adconversion.com. You can sign
up for free and get access to all of our
existing and future on demand courses
such as Reddit ads, beginner
intermediate advanced, LinkedIn ads,
beginner media advance, Google ads, and
so on and so forth. If you don't believe
us, I get it. You can check out our wall
of love. You can hear from all of the
existing students and past students at
AC Conversion that have learned from us,
taken our courses, and found tremendous
value. People have landed jobs. They've
started agencies. It's been really cool
to see the impact that we've had with
these courses. And if you're wondering
why we're doing this, like, we're trying
to build the go-to place in the world to
master B2B ads. I learned how to run ads
with my own money as a broke college
student, spending $10 a day on my DJ
business, trying to make it work. And I
remember the journey and what it was
like coming up, trying to figure out who
to learn from, getting ripped off in the
process, and I really wanted to solve
against that. And that's why I
conversion exists. So, that's
interesting to you, go ahead and check
out conversion.com. link in the
description. The next automation
workflow we love for Google ads is to
pause underperforming ads. So it's the
exact same process that we walk through
with keywords, but instead of doing
things based on the keyword scope, you
could decide to instead do it based on
the ad level scope. So for example, what
I would do is I would use this same
template non-performing ads and it's
going to follow the exact same condition
logic, right? where it's going to be
based on cost greater than x conversions
less than one. You can completely modify
it like we've talked about, but all the
difference here is instead of doing it
bas based on the keyword scope, we're
doing it based on the ad scope. And ads
are much more flexible. So like with
ads, generally speaking, like you can
have more confidence to pause and you
know make more optimizations faster
because even if the ad gets shut off,
the keyword is still enabled. So you'd
still be serving across the other ad
variations. So, if you're a little bit
more skeptical to make keyword level
changes and you really believe in the
sets of keywords you have and it's
really more of a matter of just making
your ads perform better, then the ad
level scope could be good for you. And
just to close this out, I would do the
exact same process. I would now come in
here. I would choose my active
campaigns. So, in this case, it's going
to be those five that we've been using
throughout this video. And then I will
just adjust my rule logic. So, maybe for
the ad level, you know, I want to drive
conversions for $1,000. So I could do
conversions less than one. I can switch
it for that appointment custom
conversion event if I want to. I can
enable the notifications, get notified
wherever I want in Slack, tag whoever I
want, save it, publish it, and now I've
got this automation working for me.
Because it's one thing to say like you
check your ads often. It's another thing
to say I've got a workflow that's
checking my ads every hour on the hour
scanning for my conditions. It's a whole
other beast. And one of the things that
we found is when you start to use
automation, the need for creative
iteration dramatically scales. Because
the problem is in reality is like we
just let our ads run for way too long
without oversight and we're just under
spending or we're letting it run longer
because we have like a false assumption
that we think it's going to start to
perform when it just doesn't. And really
the optimization side of ads is truly
mathematic. And that's why automation is
really powerful for this. The next
automation I want to walk you through is
to scale your top performing campaigns.
So, if you have campaigns that are
working really well for you, you want to
make sure you're scaling limited by
budget. So, what we're going to do is
we're going to create a SAM. We're going
to use this daily pacing SAM template.
And I'm just going to customize it and
I'll show you how. I'm going to select
Google. And what we're going to do is
we're going to set up a SAM to increase
budgets for our top performing
campaigns. So, let's go ahead and select
my account again. And we're going to go
to increase budgets for our top
performing campaigns. You can decide how
aggressive you want to be in terms of
making these budget changes. Do you want
to be really aggressive and scale 20%
every every day or do you want to be a
little bit more conservative and do 10%.
You can also change the frequency. So if
you don't want to make budget changes
that often on a per day basis, you could
do it on a weekly basis. So for example,
I could do once a week and I could do,
you know, let's say 20% and then I can
do it based on the last seven days of
performance. So if I wanted to and this
is basically mirroring what you would do
manually where you check on a Monday you
look over the last seven days you see
what performed you see what's limited
and then you increase the budgets right
so this would mirror that on an
automated way you could also be a bit
more loose or aggressive where you do
just based on this month and then you
can have this happen you know once a day
depending on your preference so what I'm
going to do is I'm just going to leave
it as is and I'm going to make sure my
budget cap is suited for me so in my
case like I don't ever want to exceed a
daily budget of 250 to be safe. So I'm
going to go and set that. And I also
don't want ever to be lower than 25. So
this is kind of my my wiggle room here.
And now what we're going to do is we're
going to update our formula. So the way
we have it set up as a default is daily
pacing greater than one and our cost per
conversion less than our average cost
per conversion. Daily pacing is
basically looking at your spend
yesterday against your budget and seeing
did you overspend your budget yesterday,
right? like was your daily pacing strong
because if it is then that means you can
probably increase your budget. So we
could just use this rule or what we
could do to customize it further is we
could say if our search loss to budget
is greater than 100 because search loss
to budget is a metric that Google
created to tell you when your campaigns
are limited by a budget. So what we
could do is we could say if my search
loss to budget is greater than 100 and
now you can add your performance
threshold. So for example, and my cost
per conversion is less than my average
cost per conversion. So now if my search
loss to budget is greater than 100, my
cost per conversion is less than my
average, then I want to go ahead and
increase the budget by 20%. Every single
day until my search loss to budget is no
longer greater than 100 as an example,
right? Or actually I shouldn't say 100
because it wouldn't be 100. Uh I would
say greater than zero because if you
have anything greater than zero, that
means you have some limitation of
budget. So that's how I would modify
this. And then lastly, we can just go
ahead and enable Slack notifications. We
can go ahead and, you know, tweak the
message. Won't go into that anymore.
Choose the channel, save, and then
publish. And now we are automatically
scaling our top performing campaigns
based on performance. I hope this video
was valuable. Be sure to give this video
a thumbs up. Really helps us grow our
reach as a small channel. Subscribe so
you can get notified of future videos.
And when you're ready, come check us out
over at conversion.com and join our
community of 9,000 plus B2B marketers
mastering ads with our free courses.